# SSH ingress for Kubernetes

The project implements Kubernetes ingress controller, which routes incoming
SSH connections to the shell sessions at authorized pods. Authorization and
routing are configured as IngreSsh Kubernetes resources.

## Description

I was always curious why can't I just SSH into the pod in Kubernates.

Seriously, having SSH session from outside the cluster to the container
environment could be helpful for troubleshooting configuration issues in
the container (look what's in the config, check if the service is reachable,
i.e. usual staff that kubectl exec/debug is for), making this operations
available for users without kubectl configured.

Configuring a special debug image, with tools and settings set up for
troubleshooting in an application-specific environment will also allow using
minimalistic app images without allowing users to run arbitrary debug sessions.

So here is a prototype of SSH ingress controller, which can open user shell
session at the authorized namespace/pod/container. Incoming SSH connections
are authenticated with the authorized keys, configured in the ingress
resources parameters.

A shell is opened either as exec command in the target container, or as an
attach session to the debug container started automatically upon incoming
connection in the Linux namespace of the target container.

The controller is generated by kubebuilder.

## Getting Started

You’ll need a Kubernetes cluster to run against. You can use [KIND](https://sigs.k8s.io/kind) to get a local cluster for testing, or run against a remote cluster.
**Note:** Your controller will automatically use the current context in your kubeconfig file (i.e. whatever cluster `kubectl cluster-info` shows).

### Running on the cluster

1. Install Instances of Custom Resources:

```sh
kubectl apply -f config/samples/
```

2. Build and push your image to the location specified by `IMG`:

```sh
make docker-build docker-push IMG=<some-registry>/ingressh:tag
```

3. Deploy the controller to the cluster with the image specified by `IMG`:

```sh
make deploy IMG=<some-registry>/ingressh:tag
```

### Uninstall CRDs
To delete the CRDs from the cluster:

```sh
make uninstall
```

### Undeploy controller
UnDeploy the controller from the cluster:

```sh
make undeploy
```

## Contributing
// TODO(user): Add detailed information on how you would like others to contribute to this project

### How it works
This project aims to follow the Kubernetes [Operator pattern](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/operator/).

It uses [Controllers](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/architecture/controller/),
which provide a reconcile function responsible for synchronizing resources until the desired state is reached on the cluster.

### Test It Out
1. Install the CRDs into the cluster:

```sh
make install
```

2. Run your controller (this will run in the foreground, so switch to a new terminal if you want to leave it running):

```sh
make run
```

**NOTE:** You can also run this in one step by running: `make install run`

### Modifying the API definitions
If you are editing the API definitions, generate the manifests such as CRs or CRDs using:

```sh
make manifests
```

**NOTE:** Run `make --help` for more information on all potential `make` targets

More information can be found via the [Kubebuilder Documentation](https://book.kubebuilder.io/introduction.html)

## License

Copyright 2023.

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

